In an age now driven by big data,
we need to cut through
the noise and present
key information in
a way that can be
quickly consumed and acted upon.
Making data visualization
an increasingly important skill.
Visualizations need
to not only present
data in an easy to understand
and attractive way,
but they must put the data
into context and tell a story,
striking that fine balance
between form and function.
Excel has many
rivals in the space,
but it is still an
excellent choice,
particularly if that's
where your data resides.
It offers a wealth of tools for
creating visualizations
other than
charts and the chart
options available
are constantly increasing
and improving.
In newer versions, you now
have waterfall charts,
sunburst diagrams,
and even maps charts.
But what really sets excel
apart is its flexibility.
It gives us total creative
control over our designs.
If need be, we could produce
our own animated custom chart
to tell the right
story for our data.
Over four weeks, we will explore
Excel Switch Selection of
visualization tools using
practical case studies
as seen through
the eyes of Rowan, an
environmental analyst.
Rowan is required to produce
visualizations that will
show trends, forecasts,
breakdowns, and comparisons
for a large variety
of environmental data sets.
As well as utilizing
the usual chart types,
Rowan wants to use
conditional formats,
spark lines, specialized shots,
and even create his own animated
shots and info-graphics.
In some cases, he will also
need to prepare the data using
pivot tables to drill
down and answer very
specific questions.
We are going to help him
achieve all this and present
our finished visualizations
in attractive reports
and dashboards that
use tools like
slicers and macros for
automation and interactivity.
These are the topics
we will cover.
In Week 1, we look at
dynamic visualizations with
conditional formatting,
custom number formatting,
spark lines, and macros.
Week 2, we'll explore charting
techniques for telling
the right story.
Week 3, we explore more
specialized and custom charts.
Week 4, we'll look
at summarizing and
filtering our data with pivot
tables and pivot charts.
Week 5, we put it all together by
creating stunning
interactive dashboards.
This is the second course in
our specialization on data
analytics and visualization.
The first course, Excel
Fundamentals for Data Analysis,
covers data preparation
and cleaning,
but also teach us some of
the prerequisites
for this course,
like tables and named ranges,
as well as text, lookup,
and logical functions.
To get the most out
of this course,
we would recommend you do
the first course or have
experience with these topics.
In this course, we focus on
data visualizations in Excel.
Join us on this exciting journey.